# Memory and Reading Comprehension Aide
## Using Humans to Teach Machines Our Language  

#### In the context of schoolwork and research, students and academics often deal with information in the form of text; and this text tends to be lengthy. A summary of the text, or sections of the text, can aid in the comprehension of the material and provide a useful reference for future review. This kind of reduction of large text can also serve the common task of searching. The process of creating a program to successfully search large bodies of text involves matching the content of the text to the provided query. Having a summary of key words, phrases, and ideas can help the search process to be successful and more efficient.
#### The Memory and Reading Comprehension Aide uses natural language processing techniques to examine large amounts of data to create a summary or digest of the content. 

Think of the internet as the most vast library in human history; and that does not consider private collections. Massive corpora of text data are accruing in the digital realm, and it must be interpreted by machines and matched to queries in order for humans to use it. Such queries are largely made using natural language, spoken or written, but natural language can be cumbersome as it contains many indefinite semantics. We can study natural language more in depth by combining a machine’s compute power with the learned experience or generational wisdom of human perception and creation of language. A composite approach, pairing human interaction with machine learning, is how we designed MARCA in order to provide new research perspectives. MARCA is a web-based text summarization tool that automatically highlights important sections of uploaded text and provides tools for users to rate and interact with the selected text. A sequence-to-sequence recurrent neural network works in harmony evaluating natural language using trained models while also learning from human response and preference. While previous models have been centered around syntactic qualities of word and phrase relations, our method takes a closer look at when this strategy fails. By incorporating natural human perspective into the machine learning model, we expose traits and features that were not previously identified. Our identification of nuanced features, often hidden, contributes to the translation of natural language to machine language. This makes progress in the trajectory of improving communication with machines, as well as understanding human perspective and brain function.


